<!-- 
Back of the book:

This collection, Rays of Hope Devotions, was written while traveling in a motorhome full-time. After years of volunteering and full-time employment in a church, Carolyn found that by writing and sharing her thoughts with others via email, she could be accountable to growing her faith and maintaining her relationship with Jesus while on the road. Scripture was seen all around her. In nature, their activities, in their families expanding with grandchildren, within their service through NOMADS, in her quilting, and while continuing with bible studies  while spending her winters in Arizona. May these devotionals inspire you to look deeper into your everyday activities and relationships and see God active in your life. Perhaps they will help guide you into a better relationship with God, the Father, and Jesus, His Son, through the Holy Spirit.

About the Author: 
Carolyn Ruth Traylor Morris is the daughter of Catherine and Charles Traylor (both deceased), wife of Rudy Morris (retired). They have three children, 13 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren. They currently reside in Aurora, CO but have also lived in Arkansas, Texas, Tennessee, Illinois, New Jersey, Ohio, New Hampshire, on the road in a motorhome, Arizona and Colorado. Rudy's work transferred them to these states until retirement in New Hampshire. Carolyn was a stay-at-home Mom for 18 years and volunteered at their schools and churches. She and Rudy both met and graduated from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. Carolyn got a BS in Business, Personnel Management. Finally, she went to work outside the home as a Director of Christian Education in Ohio and New Hampshire. Her work involved at lot of personnel management of volunteers, writing, leading bible studies and other stewardship activities. After retiring, she took up her interest in designing and making quilts, continued writing,and leading bible studies. Their love for the outdoors, camping, and being in nature hiking and photographing God's creations resulted from years in Scouting through high school. During the Pandemic, they learned how to provide Zoom meetings for their Chapel so members could attend. They are both still active in their retirement at Heather Gardens, a 55+ active community. You can find her work at her Etsy Shop, Rays of Hope Quilts, https://etsy.com/shop/raysofhopequilts/ or email her at raysofhopequilts@gmail.com.

Introduction: 
About a year after being on the road, I began to miss the activity of ministry in a local church. I prayed for God to fill that void because I felt the loss of those connections to my faith. Jesus filled my mind with my desire to begin writing a weekly "Thought for the Week." From 2000-2010, friends and others took this journey with me. I never dreamed anyone would even want to read my thoughts much less to continue to do so for that long. The secret, though, is that the thoughts come from God and not from me. I am merely a vessel. Because of my commitment to you in His name, I found myself looking for His presence in my life. During that time, many asked if I had them in a book for which the answer was always, NO. That would be a lot of work and I wasn't sure I could do that. Where to even begin? That was my answer for about 13 years after I stopped writing them. God wasn't finished with me yet! People would ask periodically, and then a speaker at a Women's' Christian Network brunch was a self-publisher and knew about getting a book published. It took me only four years to contact her! As you can see, I dragged my feet on this one! Matthew once again brought me to accountability! "You are the light of the world. A city situated on a hill cannot be hidden. No one lights a lamp and puts it under a basket, but rather on a lampstand, and it gives light for all who are in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven." -- Matthew 5:14-16 (CSB) I determined to be accountable to Jesus and get it published. He will oversee how it does. If only one person comes to know Him because of this work, then my efforts have been successful.
During the years we traveled, we worked with a mission organization called NOMADS. Do a search and learn more about them! They are volunteers who travel in RVs and do mission projects around the US. Since it is under the umbrella of The United Methodist Church, the agencies NOMADS support have some affiliation with UMC. Projects are determined and authorized, listed on the members web site and members, like we were, would choose which projects they wanted to work on. Projects usually were three weeks long, working Monday-Thursday, six hours a day. The agency provided places for us to park our RVs for the duration of the project. The work always varied, sometimes it was construction, office work, sorting of goods, sewing, remodeling of homes for elderly or poor, food pantry work, or many other things. God always seemed to provide the right help for each project. Once a year the members gather in a different location around the US for an annual reunion to help raise funds for those agencies that needed help with supplies as well as labor. We were all volunteers giving of our time and our funds. With that background, here is the new project God gave to me. I wanted to make a special quilt for the Reunion auction to help raise funds for the organization's work. But I wanted something very special for this group, not just any quilt. For two months, I prayed for a design. On Easter Sunday morning of 2011 at 4:30 am, I awoke with a vision of a quilt. For the next two hours that morning, I constructed it in my head. It went with me to Forest City, IA, in September.
Three of the people who took that journey to Forest City, lowa found their lives intersected in a God inspired way. Ed and Cora's journey began some time earlier with NOMADS, and, at that time, their local church in West Ohio was diminishing in members. Their church finally decided to merge with another church. Ed and Cora's church had supported NOMADS over the years of their involvement. When the church finalized their funds, they were able to give a sizeable check to Ed and Cora to bring to the NOMADS Annual Meeting and donate or use as needed for the organization.
When I took the quilt to the auction committee, Cora was there to check it in. As soon as she saw it, she told me she planned to get it to take back to her church. They had given her some money, but she did not mention how much she had. In an auction you never know! Once the live auction began, the auctioneer's wife told the story to about 300 people of how I got the design and what each part meant to me. It was a gift to me from God! I named the quilt "Thank You God." The bidding began.
Enter Alan. His journey began with his recent retirement where his co-workers described him as a "humanitarian, adventurer, entrepreneur, visionary, philanthropist." His business card reads "Serving the Lord by helping others." He joined NOMADS and had only done a few projects, one being in Ruston, Louisiana, at a children's home. While there, he attended a small country church which welcomed him graciously and befriended him as he traveled alone. Alan had no idea why he began bidding on the quilt, but he did. So much so that he helped run the price up to $4,800 where he stopped, and Cora bid $5,000 which was the exact amount of money she had to give from their old church. By this time, I was shaking, tears rolling down my face in awe of what was transpiring in the room. Cora told her story, and everyone was in awe! I stood and told the auctioneer that if the second bidder wanted, I would make another quilt for him for his last bid. He not only accepted but matched Cora's winning bid! The quilt was certainly not worth that, but they were willing to give that amount to NOMADS. My part was all donation! At this point everyone in the room knew that the Holy Spirit was running this auction! The two quilts brought significant funds to the organization. But it wasn't because of the material value of the quilts; it was because God brought three people together on a journey for different reasons.
"For I know the plans I have for you' — this is the Lord's declaration - 'plans for your well-being, not for disaster, to give you a future and a hope! " - - Jeremiah 29:11 (CSB)
But that isn't the end of the story. While making three more of the quilts in Arizona, Alan and two friends, my quilting buddies wanted to make the quilt for their churches, pastors, etc. They asked me to put it into a pattern! I had never created a written pattern, but I did have graphic, photography, and writing skills. After several days of praying about this new request, once again this scripture, Matthew 5:14-16, convinced me to proceed by not hiding the light of the gift of the quilt that God gave me in the depths of my mind but to let it shine for others to see. If God gave me this gift, I must let it be a light for Him. Four months later, the pattern was ready to distribute. Six months later, I tried a new stained-glass version using 14 colors in the rays. It became the favorite version of quilters, and I tweaked the pattern drawing. After working with a team of ladies to make the new version, we decided the text of the pattern needed to be on video showing ladies how to make it. My grandson, Sam, over a course of six weeks filmed me making one and prepared the videos that are now on YouTube in a series of five sections. The story of the quilt is also on YouTube. I set up an Etsy shop to sell the pattern in 2012. Since then, the patterns have gone global to Australia, New Zealand, Germany, United Kingdom, Holland, India, Canada, and all over the USA including Guam.
God had far exceeded my plans to make one special quilt. In the first year, the quilt acquired a new name. The name, "Rays of Hope Quilts, came about as a family member, who had just finished chemo treatments for cancer, saw it, and with tears streaming down her face, said, "That reminds me of rays of hope." My response was, "You just named the quilt."
I always have and continue to give God all the praise and glory for this journey. I asked and God gave. He opened the door that I obediently walked through. Was I afraid, yes, and no, but how could I not follow! This book is also a journey of faith that has taken me a lot longer to be obedient about. Once again, I give all the praise and glory to God for this venture. He knows the plans He has for it; I just need to be obedient.
God Bless!
--> 
